## Stream Script Idea: *the Emerican Johnson Complaint*

Talk about my experiences in the RTF industry in general
- internship early on
- professional environments
- freelance and client work
- etc.

Talk about my experiences in gen strike
- talk about the lack of communication
- self led in kind of good way but also kind of bad

### Decentralized Leadership
Decentralized leadership can be cool, however it can lead to some issues with certain things
- getting the food to the BLM protesters
- getting supplies into certain protests
- getting info out on how to stay safe
- etc.

### Why I'm Dissapointed In Emerican Johnson
Talk about Emerican Johnson specifically
- was important due to his size and major role in its creation
- Emerican Johnson was always bad at communication, is on other side of world, but I still would wait all night and he would never show into a call
- would forget about podcast dates/recording dates
- would be very late to answer DMs
- would flake out on agreed upon dates and things and places to be

### Another Anecdote

While writing this I remembered another story

We needed to get a hold of Emerican Johnson for something pretty important
- I think it was a live stream thing or an important event or we really needed him to film something
- turns out Emerican Johnson doesn't have discord on his phone, and he was out at lunch with his partner Luna
- we needed to contact another YouTuber who had his phone number to eventually get a hold of him I believe? I don't remember too many of the details but not having discord on your phone is weird to me personally.

I get and understand that people get anxiety from too many messages, but not planning for anything like this is crazy for a decently sized YouTuber being a big part of a pretty large group. I think we had to go through multiple people to eventually get some kind of message or something
- I don't really remember that much to be honest

### Find An Assistant
I understand these issues to some extent, however even at its current diminished size there's well over 400 people in the gen strike discord server currently, and I was one of the head admins of one of the entire departments
- here's an easy solution in my eyes, you need some sort of triage
- a list of people you respond to quickly or at least check in on regularly
  - even though it was decentralized, we still had heads of the different departments
  - you could have a group chat of those
  - or even you could just have a couple of the main admins that volunteer to let you know what needs to be done

### Why I'm Annoyed
I feel like my experiences as
1. someone who has been in RTF a lot [i know Emerican Johnson has past experience in this field]
2. someone who has very bad ADHD and other mental health problems that make schedules and timing hard to keep up with
3. my parents' influence on me as an adolescent
4. etc.
All help me in some regard, however eventually you need to take responsibility and do your job. I don't understand how you have communication issues this bad when you are as large of a content creator as you are, and you are one of the largest figures and promoters of an organization like gen strike.

### No Bulli Emerican Johnson
I want to make it as clear as possible that these things don't really make Emerican Johnson a bad person or anything, it just feels like I complained and gave advice when it was happening in the past
- when you are using a lot of the time and labor of a mentally disabled trans teenager without compensation I don't really feel all that bad for criticizing at least your communications skills.

### Emerican Johnson Conclusion
Overall I really enjoyed my time at gen strike and Emerican Johnson was generally a pretty cool dude, but I think I only ended up talking to him a handful of times. I spent a lot of time editing videos for the gen strike channel, and I believe none of them went on his main channel, other than the ad that I did for gen strike that may have made it into one of his main videos. I also knew I wouldn't be getting paid for this work and didn't really expect to be considering the organization itself. Also, one of the people in gen strike bought me a drawing tablet for video editing, because even at 18 I was editing enough video to develop RSI [repetitive stress injury.]

### Thought Slime
Now I'm going to complain about someone who was in the discord server, but never to my knowledge participated to any extent at all. Thought Slime was in the server at the very beginning I believe, and I tried to have Emerican Johnson get a hold of them, but they never responded. this would be fine if gen strike wasn't pushing a huge wave of strikes for mayday, and Thought Slime made a video on mayday talking about getting involved but not mentioning gen strike.

### What Gen Strike Is/Was
Now ill get into what gen strike was aimed at. gen strike 2020 was mostly about raising awareness for local strike and protests efforts, along with pointing people towards local mutual aid efforts during the beginning and worse parts of the pandemic. it was also there to help unite people generally on the left to get some real world change done during a tumultuous time.

At the time I didn't really know *how* much I agreed with *some* aspects of the things gen strike was saying, but now I cant quite remember what those were, and I do agree with a lot of the things in the platform of gen strike 2020. it seemed to *mostly* be about connecting people from across mainly the us, but also other parts of the globe. at the time I lived in the middle of nowhere, but I didn't have school or anything like that going on at the time, and I was having a really bad time with my anxiety and my transition more generally. honestly I think this time of my life was probably the worst its been in a long long time, but gen strike helped with some of that I think.


### No Bulli
If Emerican Johnson or Thought Slime or whoever from gen strike watch through this I don't want y'all to take it as some kind of attack or something. this is mostly just me trying to collect some of my thoughts on communication and stuff as it relates on online video, and how that differs from my experience in a more traditional professional setting.


### How To Actually Go About Organizing
Some things I think could help most people in general, especially larger content creators who get a lot of messages and emails:
1. probably set up some kind of hierarchy
  - I know y'all don't like hierarchy so I put it in here as a meme
  - write out what messages are the most important
  - for example
    1. phone calls
	2. texts
	3. discord messages from a select group of people
	4. business emails
	5. etc.
  - this isn't hard to do, and normally is just done subconsciously, but formalizing it more and enforcing it to some extent can definitely help
2. have a planner
  - I have to use my bullet journal and google calendar extensively to keep up with


Keep in mind
- if you organize your business communications and optimize stuff like that, your work will be easier in the future and you can use this to your advantage politically
- keeping track of possible opportunities and connections and things that need to happen help you get stuff done

### Book Rec
1. getting things done [workbook]
I read the workbook version of getting things done because it was very cheap
- I would highly recommend it at least to have some kind of template to work off of
- a lot of productivity stuff is dumb but getting things done is mostly about how to organize things to not lose them and to actually finish them so you don't have a bunch of floating tasks you need to get done but cant remember or avoid etc.
2. other than that I cant remember to be honest

### Conclusion
At the end of the day I just want people on the left that know how to get what they want done, along with people to be better communicators in general.

#### My Failings
I'm really sorry that I gave up on the podcast and news shows as well
- my life kind of became a train wreck of graduation, my ap tests, and so many doctors visits for both trans stuff and mental health. I think I also went on variation at some point which messed things up as well but yeah.

I believe episode 2 had issues coming out due to content concerns, and the guest had to leave for a while and couldn't go through it. after that point though, I couldn't find the energy to go through and publish the podcasts, even though they are all pretty much done, including the episode with Emerican Johnson I believe. I forget if I ever released those or sent them to anyone to be honest. there was also the news show that I was a big part of, but the nature of things and me not wanting to be on camera at that time made issues arise that I couldn't deal with at the time. we had recorded between 5-8 episodes of the podcast, and might've had art done for it but I cant remember. this was actually the start of my *kaileylive* channel, doing video editing streams and stuff like that.

I'm sorry if y'all still hold my kind of sudden disappearance against me
- I have a pretty hard time keeping up with social groups personally, and I'm not sure I properly communicated the podcast not being a thing id be able to complete. I get that that's probably kind of hypocritical to some extent, but systems aren't perfect and I just gotta try getting better in the future.

I don't hold any ill will against Emerican Johnson today for all of the Gen Strike shenanigans, I'm just reflecting back on the issues we had so that hopefully we can get better going forward.

<!--
#### Back To Emerican Johnson
Also, I feel like with Emerican Johnson it was a more consistent issue, kind of something that was always there. if there was only one time he missed an appointment we set up and I stayed up all night to get to I probably wouldn't be talking about this lol. I'm also pretty sure I had just found out I was naturally infertile and wasn't getting paid.
-->

### Outro
Please like, comment, subscribe, and follow me on twitch at thekaileylive
