# 2020 10 20 AFRP

### topics we need to cover

- SSD letter
- due dates upcoming
- due dates future
- group project stuff maybe? 
- the ad stuff

### discussing SSD

- extended deadlines
  - case by case basis 
  - possibly for essays
  - communicate for group assignments as well
  - discussion posts too



### ad is due 2020 10 23

### next few assignments will be posted soon



### upcoming assignments

- 10 23 performance ad
  - ad is one to two minutes
- 10 30 underground reflection 
  - https://howlround.com/happenings/performance-underground-lisa-b-thompson
  - 3-4 page reflection on the performance
  - Your paper should connect Underground to one feminist or performance concept covered in class. It should respond to the questions:
    -  What is the central theme in Underground? 
    - What kind of Black feminist intervention does Underground make? 
    - How does it illuminate the lives of Black women? 
    - How does its aesthetics and use of dramatic form relate with (or depart from) those covered in class?
  - Your paper should be proofread and well-argued. Draw on specific moments or elements from the performance to corroborate your claims.
  - could be due the Monday after if necessary; should get done by that Friday though
- going to be visited by 
  - Sharon Bridgforth
  - someone else
  - in one of the Friday classes
  - both in Nov.
- 11 20 ensemble performance text 
  - group work
    - keep updated
- one more pop up essay before Dec 7
- discussion posts due by end of semester now
  - opening up previous ones
  - another five or six
- 12 7 video ensemble performance
  - going to start at noon and play them all through
  - have snacks
- check out the pdfs
  - theatrical jazz ones color coded
  - author uses color therapy
  - poetry and pieces of plays; visual art
    - also author we're going to be meeting
- going to be doing somewhat of writing workshop this Friday
- 

