---
modified: 2020-10-07T20:01:53-05:00
---

# 2020 10 07 AFRE

**DUE Friday, October 9, 2020 by 12pm** 

<!--\1.What is emergent strategy? How does it function in nature? How can it be applied to social movements?-->

<!--\2. Please reflect on how performance strategies can be applied to community building. Pull quotes from at least **two readings from this week** to support your answers.--> 

<!--\3. Please respond to at least one person's comment.--> 

<p><!--(1)-->Emergent strategy is the way people can change the future based on their relatively simple and smaller actions. The way that this is done in an individual's life can vary wildly, but just recognizing how the things you do in day to day life can affect the people and circumstances around you is a big step in a positive direction. We don't need everybody to go out and do direct action to push forward things like equality and justice; some people, especially maginalised people, often don't have the time or mental energy for that. While large and immediate direct action, like protesting, lobbying, writing to politicians, and many other things are very important and necessary, often times it's easier to bring people to the idea that when things come up in conversation, to push back against bigotry and stand for marginalised people. Just making people aware of things and getting them to help in trying to make more inclusive spaces is also a huge force for good, and often a lot easier than the more direct action I mentioned before.</p>

<p> <!--(2)--> I've really enjoyed the readings from <B>Experiments in a Jazz Aesthetic</B>, so I'm going to primarily be pulling from that in my answer. I really enjoyed the idea of a creative space primarily for Women of Color, with White women more taking a role as guests to their circle. Creating a creative space for people of a specific oppressed group to reflect on experiences that the group might share, while having people from the non oppressed group be there to observe and understand what that might be like for members of the oppressed group sounds enlightening for everyone involved. My initial reaction to reading about this, though, was kind of negative to the idea. However, I just mentally reframed it to be about trans people to see if I would have a negative reaction in that case, and now I understand why it would be a good way to have a group reflect on collective experiences, while helping people allied to that group understand what they go through in today's society. The Jazz Aesthetic being used to help the group to create together, along with helping people "journey into a deep place in themselves for the sake of artistic expression," is something I really like and admire. The way the author describes guiding a group of people through an extremely emotional experience, while trying to "not force people to go to places they cannot come back from," is something I admire as well.</p>

<!--//emergence is the way small systems and patterns interact-->

<!--// while the word strategy is just a military word for strategic plan-->