# 2022-05-07-GOV-E-1
### Take Home Essay 3 Question 1
1. Gravelle, Reifler, and Scotto (2017) and Rathbun et al. (2016) point to three key dimensions in foreign policy attitudes. 

only covering militant internationalism, cooperative internationalism, and isolationism. 


Please discuss which dimension you believe best reflects the current attitudes of Americans toward foreign policy. 
I believe that when it comes to current United States foreign policy, for the most part we fall under cooperative internationalism. 

In answering this, please also address the following:

- What are some of the misconceptions of early American foreign policy?
  - isolationism
    - Strong emphasis on trade
  - have secretary of state and ambassadores?
The main misconception of early United States foreign policy is the belief that is was isolationist and without a central idea of what it wanted to do. This is primarily from a European perspective, as western Europe spent a lot of the early United States’s history fighting for military dominance over one another. The belief generally stems from the United States’s staying out of a lot of wars and conflicts in its early history. However, this belief fails to take into account any sort of trade policy or neutral foreign policy that can take place. 



- What are some of the critiques of American foreign policy attitudes and how are they linked to Converse’s study of American political attitudes?
  - not fixed ideological structures
  - found there was more structure than converse thoguht and more structure than aldin thoguht


- What role does globalization play in shaping the American economy?
  - can help with competition
  - Worldwide events can mess with prices
Globalization has broadly affected the United States in both foreign and domestic spheres. For the most part, it has been very positive, lowering costs on products and helping with innovation. However, where there are issues in one part of the world it will affect everyone. For example, the boat that got stuck in the suez canal caused goods to get delayed for weeks all across the world, when that is an even that only took place in one small area. 

- What are the factors that have influenced American attitudes towards globalization?
  - people's skill level
  - people's class status
When it comes to people’s opinions on globalization, this is broadly affected by someone’s economic and social class. For the most part, people that are in more skilled positions with high education really like globalization, as it helps them the most. However, a lot of lower skilled and educated people don’t like globalization, as it can remove jobs from their area and lower their wages. Not all of the affects of globalization are negative for people in lower classes, as lower costs of goods help everyone, but the negatives often visibly affect them way more. 

- What is the most important factor in understanding how members of Congress have reacted to globalization
  - constituencies that are highly skilled
    - globalization will expand the market they can sell their skills in, giving them more money
  - lower skill, more globalization will negatively affect their constituency
    - increase supply of low skill labor, making wages go down for them 
When it comes to congresspeople supporting globalization, the biggest factor that determines this isn’t party affiliation but instead their constituency. If they have a wealthier, higher educated constituency they tend to support globalization. If their constituency is less well educated and lower skilled, they tend to not support globalization. 




