# 2022-05-03-GOV-A

##### Please look over the voting methods and choose which one you believe is best the best method. Make sure to explain how you believe this method will influence voter turnout and parties. The write up should be between 300-400 words.

I believe that a single plurality system on a wider scale is the best system for voter turnout and voter understanding, while allowing for a wider variety of political opinions in the primaries. A lot of people have a hard time keeping up with all of the political offices that are up for election, and adding more than just the two viable parties under our current system would make it exponentially more confusing for the average person. In the U.S, we already have issues with lower voter turnout and lower voter information, and I do not think increasing the number of parties will help with this issue. I believe that the focus should instead be on education around primaries and general elections, and that that would be a larger increase to how well the population's wishes are met. Having two parties that you understand the platform of to some extent is better than more parties of you understand less. 

When it comes to the worry of the diversity of political opinion within each party, there is still a lot of diversity of opinions and platforms in the primary process for each position. For example, look at the 2020 presidential primary. For a long time, there were 11 candidates running for the office. From the further left populist Bernie Sanders to the more establishment front runner Joe Biden, there was still a decent amount of interplay between different point of views within the party. There were concessions the eventual winner made to the further left parts of the party as well. The main issue is that most people are not fully educated on general elections and who is running, let alone the primary. There isn't anywhere near as large of a drive for people to vote in the primaries also, with the vast vast majority of election efforts being made to get people to vote in the general presidential election. 