# 2022-05-07-GOV-E-2
### Take Home Essay 3 Question 2
- American citizens have been maligned because of what scholars view as their perceived failures to live up to the expectations of living in a democracy or democratic republic. 

- Of these various critiques, 
  - public opinion?
  - political engagement
  - political education
  - not highly engaged or attentive
  - not a strong ideological lean
  - some scholars say it isnt quite as bad as many think
  - overuse of heuristics
    - GOD THING

- which one do you believe has the most credibility and 
  - overuse of heuristics
Oftentimes United States citizens are maligned for being seen to have failed to be good members of a democratic republic. There’s a whole list of accusations, from an overuse of heuristics to not having a strong ideological leaning to not being highly engaged or attentive to politics. I believe the most grounded criticism out of all of the ones I’ve heard is the overuse of heuristics, and the least grounded I’ve seen is the lack of a coherent ideology. 
When looking at how many United States citizens overuse heuristics, one of the easiest examples to see is the god strategy.[look up name] Even if a politician isn’t super religious, oftentimes before elections they will release campaign ads acting as though they are, or hinting at their devotion during debates. This is done because most of the United States is Christian to some extent, and non religious people normally aren’t put off by the stunt. Being visibly religious helps to signal to your base that you are a good person, and a lot of people use devotion to Christianity as a barometer of who is a good person.

- which critique do you believe is most overblown? 
I believe the idea that most Americans don’t have a coherent ideology to be really overblown. I don’t believe most Americans have necessarily thought out all of their positions on political issues and why they believe those things before rationally choosing a party and candidates to support, but that doesn’t mean Americans don't have some sort of coherent ideology. Often people’s morals and environment play into a belief system that for the most part is consistent. Most people have goals for society and the way they believe is best to get there, even if they don’t have the hardest convictions on those things. 

- How does the media’s use of the combative politics frame alleviate or exacerbate these problems?
  - the media only focusing on the fight to get legislation in and the fight between two sides instead of whats in the legislation or on people's agenda
  - eventually leaves people feeling defeated by the time things pass into law
  - how might that shape people’s willingness to engage 
    - exhausts people by the time things are passed and don't like the policy as much bc of the fight
The media will often use a framing tactic called combative politics in order to get ratings. In short, this is where the media will cover everything in politics as a fight between two sides, without necessarily covering all of the 

- How does the use of emotions in campaigning alleviate or exacerbate these problems?
  - if a campaign plays into fear and anxiety, it will get less of a response from people
  - if a campaign plays on anger, people will not process new information as well 
There are things political campaigns can do in order to help alleviate or exacerbate the problems with this combative politics framing. Campaigns can play off different emotions in their advertising or in political debates in order to affect their audience differently. Starting with strategies that don’t address the core issues, using fear and anxiety in a political campaign doesn’t inspire higher efforts of political participation in people, instead resulting in more low effort methods of participation. When people are exhausted by combative politics, these emotions don’t spark people to action as highly as others. The next emotion that could help is anger. This can lead to higher effort forms of participation, however angry people don’t process new information well. This can short term help to get past the exhaustion of combative politics, but long term I doubt the efficacy of anger as a driving force. Finally, 


- How might government policies contribute to the difficulties of citizens fulfilling their democratic responsibilities?

When it comes to political participation in the United States, sometimes the government itself can step in and make it more difficult for people who are eligible to vote to get their ballot in the box. Often this is done through the institution of laws that require a specific kind of state ID to vote, but there are other ways the state can get in the way. Sometimes states will lower the number of places you can go to vote, which in turn makes it take longer to get to a polling station and increases lines. This can be targeted to certain areas to get certain types of people to vote less. States can also reduce the number of days for people to vote, stopping people who have busier schedules from voting as easily. However, not all of the things the state can do are negative. Doing the opposite of a lot of these things can help increase voter turnout. Increasing early voting days, making mail in voting easier, and creating more poling stations all contribute to voting turnout. 

- How would rational choice scholars, such as Anthony Downs, respond to these critics?
  - cost and energy and time to get information is time that could be spent on something else
  - participation & voting 
    - participate too much 
	- makes sense for this
Another school of thought is the rational choice scholars, such as Anthony Downs. 
