# 2020 10 14 UGS ULS: E

**Write a 1 page single-spaced or two page double-spaced reflection essay  about your experience. A reflection essay is where you talk about the  points you found interesting and your general thoughts about the  experience. Poems are welcome.  All UGS lectures are virtual this year. **

<!-- - I really enjoyed how Dr. Moore (check spell) tied together a lot of pressing issues, and helped clarify how seemingly unrelated and large problems in society today can all kind of be helped together-->
<!-- - I enjoyed how Dr. Moore gave us actionable advice on how to improve our resumes-->
<!-- - I enjoyed how he helped to show us a path forward into the ever changing future of our country-->

<p>	I really enjoyed the Undergraduate Lecture Series talk by Dr. Moore, he gave a lot of really good advice that helped give me a sense of direction going forwards. His talk also helped to tie a lot of the issues plaguing America today together, and give me a better understanding of what's going on.</p>

<!-- - I enjoyed how Dr. Moore gave us actionable advice on how to improve our resumes-->
<!-- - I enjoyed how he helped to show us a path forward into the ever changing future of our country-->

<p>	Starting with the smallest scope topic Dr. Moore discussed, he gave advice on how to build a good resume going forward into our ever changing world. He talked about how we should be focusing on gaining as much experience as we can before we graduate, because moving forward adaptability will be more important than raw academic credentials. Instead of focusing just on our studies, we should be focusing on the opportunities we see to work in the field we want to go into. I have already sort of been following this advice myself in the past, having interned at an ad agency between sophomore and junior year of high school. I also did as much work in photography and videography as I possibly could, whether as freelance advertising for local businesses or photographing my teacher's adoption. Where Dr. Moore's advice comes in to the picture for me is all of the opportunities at the University of Texas that he highlighted throughout his speech, especially the study abroad programs UT has. </p>

<!--//-->

<!--I enjoyed how he helped to show us a path forward into the ever changing future of our country-->

<!--I really enjoyed how Dr. Moore (check spell) tied together a lot of pressing issues, and helped clarify how seemingly unrelated and large problems in society today can all kind of be helped together-->

<!--//-->

<p>	Dr. Moore used this to transition into how we can be effective citizens as well. To affect the greatest and most positive impact on the world, having a lot of worldly experience will help you forward. To make it in life, worldly experience around the globe will help you to stand out to employers, and what you learn may help you to make it on your own. In this rapidly changing world, being adaptable and flexible is the key to success, and something robots can't do or take from you. Make the best of everything you can, and push yourself to do things you didn't think you could. </p>

<!--//-->

<!--I really enjoyed how Dr. Moore (check spell) tied together a lot of pressing issues, and helped clarify how seemingly unrelated and large problems in society today can all kind of be helped together-->

<!--//-->

<p>	Threaded throughout his talk, Dr. Moore connects three common strings of issues; racial justice, artificial intelligence, and education. He does a really good job of showing how all of them relate to one another, and the balance that needs to be found. Often times, due to a long history of oppression, People of Color have way worse educational outcomes than most White people. This means a lot of People of Color take up jobs like trucking, which are under threat of automation. Educational outcomes were only made worse for lower income, underfunded schools due to the current covid pandemic. Moving online was hard for everyone, especially if your school didn't have the funds to do it properly and effectively. In order to fix these problems and more, there's not just one silver bullet solution. However, by helping any of these, it can help to mitigate the effects of the others for those hurt the most by all of these things. </p>

<p>	Dr. Moore's discussion was extremely interesting in how it connected a lot of disparate topics in my mind, and showed a path forward that might not be completely negative.</p>