# 2021-11-04-MAS-N-L
## political participation
- Bedolla Ch 7

### intro
instructions about digital project
- designed to be fun
- create a bunch of informational fun videos
- we should work in groups
- won't be graded abc
- easy grade
- entertaining fun video about a topic we have covered
- fun TikTok for the class
- won't need to worry about grade
- 1-4 people
- will be due last day of class
- I think there might be two
- could be two separate things or two parts
- is there GroupMe

### question
- Why is socioeconomic status important for politics?
  - Political resources and access
  - More time to invest
  - availability of time and resources
- Strategies – power in numbers vs. power in economic influence
  - more money allows you to get your messaging further

### Population and Numbers
- Latino population rapidly increasing in size
- 2010 Census: 50.5 million Latinos - 16.3% of the total population
- Population grew 43% over the decade
- Latinos no longer the invisible minority – has population size led to political changes?

### More Attention
- Campaigns now focus on Latino population – since 2000
  - Bush won highest portion of Latino vote
  - courted Latino vote
  - spoke Spanish
  - was governor of Texas
- Debates and campaigning on Spanish language television – first debate in 2007
  - big deal
- Futuro Fund – Eva Longoria and SA businessman, Henry Muñoz – raised $32 million to help Obama woo Latino vote
  - 2013 Muñoz becomes finance chairman of DNC
- Did Trump follow this pattern?
  - I don't think he tried to woo them very much
  - I thought he was antagonistic
  - still won without the Latino vote

### Demographics
- 2020 Census: 62 million Latinos living in the U.S.
  - 19% and nation’s largest minority group
  - 2060 estimates are 28%
- Subgroups:	Mexicans (62%), Puerto Ricans (10%), Cubans (4%), Salvadorans and Dominicans (4%)
  - How do demographics affect policy preferences?

### Income
- Mexican Americans - 64.5% of white median household income
- Puerto Ricans - 62.1%
- Cubans - 76.3%
- Central and South Americans - 74.5%
- Other Latinos - 71.8%
- Poverty rate: 21.2% of Latinos were below the federal poverty   level in 2000 (11.0% for Whites)

### SES and Voting
- Political Science studies found that SES determines voter participation
- But once Latino and Black voters were added to equation, does not hold
  - Trust in government, efficacy, group identity must also be added

### Group Consciousness
- How do Latinos identify?
- Linked fate  - feeling that what happens to you is linked to what happens to your racial/ethnic group
  - even if you do better than most other people of your group, you still try to help them
- Is Latino a useful or real construct? A political construct?

### Political Participation
- 30% of Latino population overall votes
  - 60% of Blacks and whites by comparison
  - Registered voter rates are the same
  - In midterm elections, number is 20% (whites, 50%)
- 2018 was an exception – more high stakes elections produce more participation
- Citizenship, younger population, women vote more
  - BUT 2016 only 48% of eligible voters voted

### Mobilization
- Are campaigns mobilizing Latino voters?
- Each year 500,000 Latinos turn 18 – without a voter history, they are not included in data or registers
- Latinos have low propensity to vote – are often not targeted by campaigns – 80% were likely not targeted in 2016 campaign
- Studies find that efficacy and trust are two major issues to mobilize Latino voters

### Concentration and Dispersion
- Census determines redistricting and allocation of federal dollars
- 80% of Hispanics live in 9 states
- The importance of population density:
  - Plays an important role in electoral vote for presidential election
  - Potential power for Latinos to exert control or influence over local governments

### Occupation
- Latinos occupy lower-paying and lower-status jobs than non-Latinos
- Middle class and upper-income Latino families work 5 &13 more hours per week than whites, respectively
- Is the economic status temporary?
  - Are Latinos on a track similar to other ethnic immigrant groups to achieve economic parity or has discrimination stunted the progress of Latinos requiring government action and additional opportunities?

### Question
- What effect does education have on political participation?

### Education
- Surveys show that 9 out of 10 Latino parents expect their children to go to college
- But, Latinos must often sacrifice higher education for employment to support family
- In 2002, 57%  of Latinos obtained a high school diploma (whites, 88%)
- Cubans were the highest (88%) and Mexicans were the lowest (51%)

### Educational Choices
- What kinds of degrees are Latinos getting?
- More getting two-year degrees + higher drop out rate for two-year colleges

### Electoral System
- Majoritarian
  - Majority rules vs. proportional representation
- Majority rules – over 50% wins the election
- Proportional representation - percentage of votes determines percentage of seats
- How does this affect minority voters?

### VRA for Latinos
- Voting Rights Act, 1975, extended to language minorities
  - National legislation protecting and promoting the political status of Latinos
- What did VRA provide to advance the franchise for Latinos?
  - Federal protection of Latino rights at ballot box
  - Removed obstacles to voting
  - Bilingual ballots
  - Protected minority vote dilution- gerrymandering
  - 2013 ruling removed preclearance and Section 5

### Citizenship
- 40% of Latino population is foreign born
- California: 12 municipalities where noncitizens make up over 50% of population
  - Many argue noncitizens should vote at local level
  - Citizenship requirements began in 20th century
- Noncitizens can do nonelectoral participation – protest, contacting officials, signing petitions, boycotting, etc.
  - Are they interested?
  - Nonelectoral participation often same as electoral – more likely for higher education, incomes and older people

### Efficacy
- Surveys: People like me understand politics (internal) or politicians pay attention to people like me (external)
  - Latinos more likely to have lower internal efficacy, external low among all groups
- How can we address problems of efficacy?
  - What leads most not to think their vote matters?

### Political Influence
- Committee rules – laws come through committees to be passed
  - How does the law-making process through committees hurt the Latino population?
- Party loyalty vs. constituency
  - Party members are rewarded for party loyalty
  - Kinds of policies advocated by Latinos often are not included in final legislation
- How can Latinos have their interests represented?
  - Substantive vs. symbolic representation
  - How often are you represented by the people you want?

### Latinos in Congress
- 83% Democrat
- 17% Republican
- 8.5% Latino
- 5 Latino members of Senate

### Compromise
- Does party compromise hurt minority groups?
- New infrastructure bill from President Biden:
  - 7 million undocumented immigrants can apply for permits to work and travel in the U.S. for five years (compromise for path to citizenship)
  - Government can tap unused visas to admit people into the U.S.
- “We have to have something for our immigrants,” - Rep. Judy Chu, D-Calif.
- “We are not giving up on immigration” –Sen Padilla. (CA)
- Paid family leave and the immigration law changes have drawn resistance from Manchin – leads the compromise
<!--stopped here for today-->

### Geography
- Local level electoral rules differ
- Single Member districts
  - Jurisdiction broken up into districts
  - One representative to serve each unit
- At large district
  - City is one large district with individuals elected “at large” to serve on city council
  - All voters in the district vote

### Question
- Which district would be more likely to vote for Latino representatives? Why?

<!--
latino - Latino
blk - Black
ppl - people
 i - I
-->
