# 2021-10-26-MAS-N-L
## Bilingual Education

### Education and Discrimination
- Institutional discrimination	
  - "When the rules or procedures of an organization are such that the neutral application of these rules or procedures results in a disproportionate impact on minorities."
- How does this happen in the educational system?
  - Tracking students into different curriculums
  - Differential disciplinary actions
  - Latinos overrepresented in special education classes
  - Different treatment within the classroom 
  - Social class and ethnicity
  - Latino representation in schools: board members, principals and teachers results in more equal treatment

### Drop out Rates
- What explains higher Latino drop out rates?

### Education
- Brings greater social equality
- Significant gaps in quality of education and attainment by race and ethnicity
  - Cultural explanations are false, but continue to affect students
  - Rankings can push ideas of Anglo cultural superiority
- How do we measure merit?  Why do we rank?
  - Focus on test scores
  - Education based on individual merit and effort – ignores unearned privilege
    - Personal income, occupational status, educational attainment, etc.

### Structural factors
- Historical and institutional factors
- "Mode of incorporation" European origin experiences vs. Latin American origin
- Latinos as objects rather than students – rated by scores
  - Valenzuela finds Latinos reject schooling, not education
  - Little about history, language, community or culture is worthy of inclusion in curriculum

### Ways to challenge
- Culturally relevant content and teachers
- Respecting cultural difference
- Better teacher preparation and recruitment
- Countering stereotypes
- Increasing parent involvement
- Developing parent networks that include teachers
- Research based policies that address structural and organizational features of school and discrimination – tracking
- Disciplinary policies

### Bilingual Education
- What is national public opinion on bilingual education?
- Latinos support bilingual education 80-95%
  - Majority of whites do not support it
- What should bilingual education look like for Spanish speaking students?  How long should they be educated in Spanish, if at all?
- Opinions range from no Spanish instruction, to 3 years, to 6 years to no English instruction plus cultural instruction through graduation
- Some argue that Latinos are American residents and taxpayers and should be taught in their native language
- But, 90% of Latinos believe learning English is essential
- 95% believe future Latina/o generations need to speak Spanish

### Stats
- 1/10 of students in U.S. have limited English proficiency (80% Spanish)
- 60% of students in English only programs
  - 12% receive no special services for English proficiency
- 40% receive bilingual instruction
  - Length of time varies
  - No way to know quality of instruction or support
- Native English have test scores averaging in 50th percentile
  - English learners 10th or 12th 

### Bilingual Education
- Dual language students come closer to closing gap
- Programs are inconsistent…
- What is the best way to learn English *and* succeed academically?

### Supporters
- Ensure long-term education achievement
- Better for cognitive development –English only limits academic learning (how to think is more important)
- English only do well in early grades but have cognitive slowdown later
  - Must develop first language – first language instruction
- Studies do not control for income, length of time in U.S or initial language proficiency

### Education vs. Instruction
- "The issue is giving kids access to academic content that sparks their curiosity.  The fundamental piece is that education isn't pouring knowledge into empty vessels.  You have to get kids interested and excited in the content of what you're teaching."

### Opponents
- Does not completely close the gap between English learners and native students
- Delays students' mastery of English – not fast enough
- Short term vs. long term debates: opponents interested in short term
- Some programs are pure Spanish
- Assimilation is faster with English immersion

### State Decisions
- Funding decisions left up to state
- Politics, not research determine instructional method
- Often states do not spend money on these initiatives
- Funding must be accompanied with quality instruction – funding not the only part of debate
- Some argue that only funding needed is ESL teachers

### English Language
- 1980s English Only campaigns began to restrict the use of Spanish
  - Implementation was not always consistent but most emphasized official documents
- By 2001 - 23 states had English only policies on the books – every state has considered it
- Are these policies rooted in discrimination or anti-Latino sentiment?

### Language
- Imperialist policies to enforce English 
- US denied New Mexico admission into the Union for six decades
  - Because of populations tenacious use of Spanish in public realms, insufficient literacy in English and large non-white population (Native and Mexican)
  - Statehood granted in 1912 with both languages, but English became official language
- Puerto Rico – US prioritized English in schools but in 1948 PR reinstated Spanish as official language of instruction
  - National identity and pride

### Spanglish
- How do bilingual people communicate?
- Dual language can ignore complex language practices – code-switching, borrowing of words, Spanglish
- But Spanglish gets a bad rap – language discrimination
  - "speaking correctly" or "contamination of English and Spanish"
  - Reflection of socioeconomic status?
  - Identity remapped onto language
