# 2021-10-24-MAS-A

### Intro
I've heard a lot about the migrant crisis over the last few months. A lot of the focus is on the response from the biden administration without looking at the people coming over. Over the last few years many groups of people have crossed the United States-Mexico border. Let's look at the current immigration wave to the United States, and some of the reasons these people are coming over.

### Introducing the Haitians.
Primarily, the group of people coming over right now are Haitian migrants. Now, Haiti is Southeast of Cuba, just outside of the gulf of mexico. For the most part, these migrants are coming from the Texas-Mexico border, so why are they showing up there instead of going to Florida? The reason for this is a lot of these people originally fled Haiti in 2010 after a really bad earthquake. Instead of heading to the United States, a lot of them ended up in South America, with a significant population in Chile.

### Why they're leaving
After a decade in South America, anti immigrant sentiments were on the rise, this along with the pandemic severely hurting chile's economy was the main reason a lot of these migrants chose to move. Also, this past summer, the Biden administration allowed a temporary protective status for thousands of  Haitian migrants illegally in the United States. This is because they deemed Haiti to be in "extraordinary and temporary conditions." This led to the Haitians in South America that were already wanting to leave possible hope at a home in the United States, so they started heading up through Central America. For months, Mexico had stopped the group of migrants from reaching the Texas-Mexico border. At some point recently, Mexico stopped being able to hold them back, and they ended up at the United States-Mexico border.

### The Biden Administration's response
A lot of these Haitian migrants would like to claim asylum in the United States, as is their international right. However, the Biden administration is trying to use article 42 in order to turn all of them away because of the pandemic. Article 42 of the United States code is a 75 year old legislation allowing the federal government to turn away migrants if they pose a risk to public health. Personally, I don't know if this United States law can supersede the United Nations laws on seeking asylum, and this use of Article 42 is currently being fought in the courts. However, a lot of Haitians were initially put on expulsion flights back to Haiti, many who hadn't been in the country in a decade.

### Border Patrol response
A lot of the Haitians camped out under a bridge in Del Rio, Texas, waiting for the Border Patrol to apprehend them and allow them to claim asylum. According to the Washington post's reporting, they would go back and forth across the border to get supplies as they waited to get apprehended, and one time on the way back across the border they were approached by Border Patrol agents on horseback trying to bring them back across the border. "Were seen swinging the horses’ reins" and "a Border Patrol agent on a horse shout[ed] an obscenity as he tried to clear a child away." This footage was really worrying, as they showed a degree of carelessness for the wellbeing of the migrants that shouldn't be acceptable. After this incident, however, United States officials suspended the horse patrols in that area.

### AP article on immigration office meetings
In order to clear this camp under the bridge in Del Rio, which at its height had around 14,000 migrants, there has been a massive effort to bring migrants to El Paso, Laredo and Rio Grande Valley, along with some flights to Tucson, Arizona. The migrants being brought to these locations are being freed into the United States, with a date in an immigration office set for around 60 days later. This is in complete contrast to everything the Biden administration has been saying, but has been corroborated by the Associated Press and anonymous United States officials they interviewed. They also said that they didn't know who would end up being put on expulsion flights, but that their main priority was single adults. However, Mexico has also been busing and flying Haitian migrants away from the border as well. In the past, Mexico has worked with the United States when it comes to immigration issues. They aren't deporting people who seek asylum in Mexico, instead bringing them to Tapachula. This is a city on the southern side of Mexico, near Guatemala, which is home to the largest immigration detention center in Latin America. Mexico is heavily cracking down on migration to the United States-Mexico border, seemingly harder than the United States is.

### final opinion
I definitely think that it's good that at least some portion of these hatian migrants are getting processed through the immigration courts and offices, and hopefully some of these people get to stay in the United States. I don't think the extent to which it is being cracked down by both the United States and Mexican goverment is really warranted, and working through this in a more peaceful and transparent way would probably help to solve this in a more orderly fashion. 

<!--
abbreviations
u.s.m - United States-Mexico border
u.s.t - Texas-Mexico border
u.s - United States
s.a - South America
j.b - President Joe Biden
b.a - the Biden administration
b.p - Border Patrol
-->
