# 2020 10 11 RTFD



**Choose a television series, either broadcast or streaming, to  adapt to radio. What are some of the significant changes you would need  to make in your adaption of this series to the NON-visual medium of  radio, or what do you think might translate over pretty nicely? ** ***Alternatively***, what do you think is a TV show that is on today that you think would adapt** **poorly** **to radio, and why?**

- i dont really watch all that much tv anymore, but i dont really understand sports on the radio. i really feel as though a lot of the things you get while watching sports, like the ability to check the score and time left whenever, being able to understand whats going on better, and feeling more present at the event, are all kinda completely lost while listening to sports on the radio.
- i feel like a modern streamed media that would probably work really well on radio, or even just an audio only platform, would be livestreaming. often times live podcasts are done on livestreaming services like twitch, along with talk shows, interviews, and debates. livestreams are also primarily put on in the background as well. all of this joins together to make something i would guess could be put onto the radio extremely effectively, just due to the similarities between livestreaming and talk radio. talk radio is unscripted, mostly personality based, and often uses audience interaction to drive the content. things like giveaways and call in shows are used to pass the time. in livestreaming, call in shows are frequent as well, along with a live chat that the streamer can watch and interact with during their stream. also, one of the main things driving the audience to listen is the personality of the streamer, similar to radio talk shows.



### edited final one

I don't really watch all that much TV anymore, but I don't really understand sports on the radio. I really feel as though a lot of the things you get while watching sports, like the ability to check the score and time left whenever, being able to understand what's going on better, and feeling more present at the event, are all kinda completely lost while listening to sports on the radio.

I feel like a modern streamed media that would probably work really well on radio, or even just an audio only platform, would be live streaming. Oftentimes live podcasts are done on live streaming services like twitch, along with talk shows, interviews, and debates. Live streams are also primarily put on in the background as well. All of this joins together to make something I would guess could be put onto the radio extremely effectively, just due to the similarities between live streaming and talk radio. Talk radio is unscripted, mostly personality based, and often uses audience interaction to drive the content. Things like giveaways and call in shows are used to pass the time. In live streaming, call in shows are frequent as well, along with a live chat that the streamer can watch and interact with during their stream. Also, one of the main things driving the audience to listen is the personality of the streamer, similar to radio talk shows.