## English essay 3

- Remember that your paper should be at least 
  - 500-750 words in length
  - double-spaced
  - with 12-point font 
  - 1-inch margins

---

### questions

1. What is the role of place and/or space in the story? 

The places the father lives show his standard of living, along with his social standing. At the beginning of the story, he’s in Romania, where hes generally living fine, but he wants more in life. He sees America as an opportunity to get a better lot in life, where people don’t have to worry due to the standard of living being higher. He then realizes America at the time was generally grungy and gross, especially for poor people. It feels like the spaces within the story shift as the story progresses. As the father starts to feel better about his standing, his description of his place in life generally improves. As the father is worse off, America feels like a more shifty place than it did before. 



2. How are spaces or places described, and how do these descriptions connect to a larger characterization of the United States? 

Before the father moved to America, it is described as one of the most amazing places, when he got there, he realized that it wasn't great for most people. 

He originally saw it as a land of fun and games for everyone, but he realizes that even though the technological progress had gone further than Romania, it didn’t necessarily lead to a lesser amount of work or being treated better in general. 

This is a form of the American dream most of us are familiar with, made even more hyperbolic. The idea that the poorest of the poor are doing better than the richest people in Romania is almost laughable from my perspective, but they also barely had contact with the United States.


After living in America for a while, he becomes cynical and very willing to take advantage of others in order to get where he wants to be. This is very similar to Sam Kravitz, who is the one who made him come to this perspective through betrayal. It’s funny, the father got a picture of him in the hat that he saw his cousin wearing before he had lost as much weight as his cousin had. They could both have done many similar things from getting to the United States to the point that they meet, Kravitz is just an older version of the father from the story. 




3. Include at least three direct quotes from the story you choose in your response to this prompt





