Kailey Stark
17 May 2021
English Final Essay 1

Frederick Douglass's book, Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, shows a big incongruence between what the founders of America thought as opposed to what actually was going on in America all throughout its history at the time. 

A lot of people characterized America as a place of opportunity for all throughout most of America's history. However, people that were enslaved did not have any way of progressing to a higher status in society or to achieve a higher standard of living for themselves or their families. The ideal of America also sees it as a place of equality, but enslaved people were literally owned by their enslavers, they weren't seen as full people. Another element of America's ideals that Frederick Douglass goes into is that America is a site of unparalleled liberty. However, enslaved people didn't have rights at all. for example, enslaved people didn't have bodily autonomy, couldn't vote, couldn't choose their occupation or education, couldn't always keep their families together, and were literally property. 

Obviously, during the time of Frederick Douglass, the founders ideals of liberty weren't reached. I think that this is a huge knock on the idea of American exceptionalism. The face that it took us so long to abolish slavery, and we had to have a civil war over it for it to end, the fact that we were behind most other developed countries on the slavery issue, and the fact that slaves were treated awful in the south, and even in the north Black people were generally looked down upon are issues that are hard to reconcile with most people's understanding of American exceptionalism. The idea that all men are created equal, compared against the reality of slavery and how long it persisted is a huge disconnect between what America is and should be. Frederick Douglass was pro abolition, and was an escaped enslaved person who fought directly against the institution of slavery and the mistreatment of people of color more generally. 

Looking at America's past and comparing it to the ideals set forth in the constitution and other writings by the founding fathers, and then realizing that they allowed slavery to exist for over 60 more years makes obvious a huge disconnect between the ideals and actions in a way that's unimaginable in my opinion. Frederick Douglass's book helps to illustrate this extremely well, as it shows that awful and disgusting treatment of enslaved people that happened in this nation earlier in its history. He uses very visual and evocative language throughout Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass and it helps to drive the point home, helping the reader to more viscerally understand the horrors of slavery. 
