You should record the following in your journal at least 4 times each day: the places you spent time in (e.g., home, campus, cafe, store), the activities you engaged in (e.g., studying, exercising, running errands), the people you interacted with (e.g., friends, family, strangers), the types of social interactions you had (e.g., in-person conversations, calls, texts, social media use), the topics you talks about (e.g., classes, leisure activities, personal issues), and your moods (e.g., how angry, worried, happy, sad you feel).

PROS: No information on your moods and behaviors will be sent to us; you will not have to check notifications; your phone will not run down any faster than normal.

CONS: You will need to manually keep track of moods and behaviors; you will not receive any feedback.

We will give you more information on both options next week when Step 2 begins. If you decide to do the smartphone app option, you will receive information on how to download the app next week.


If you prefer to record your experiences another way, you may do so by keeping a handwritten journal. This can be done by hand or on your computer. However, you will not receive any personalized feedback.

To parallel Option 1, you should record the following in your journal 4 times each day:

- the places you spent time in (e.g., home, campus, cafe, store)
- the activities you engaged in (e.g., studying, exercising, running errands)
- the people you interacted with (e.g., friends, family, strangers)
- the types of social interactions you had (e.g., in-person conversations, calls, texts, social media use)
- the topics you talked about (e.g., classes, leisure activities, personal issues)
- your moods (e.g., how angry, worried, happy, sad you feel)

If you choose this option, you'll be asked to convert your journal to a .pdf and upload it to the corresponding page in Canvas. For more information and instructions about Option 2, please read the information posted HERE.









 