2021-02-11-PSY-N-R-6

### Biochemistry of Love

- Starts looking at Love through a biological lens
- Then goes thru some evolution stuff
- Love stuff often transmitted thru vegas nerve; 
- love is repurposed from past evolutionary components until we got to ppl
- Starts talking about oxytocin; 
  - helps and is an aspect of Love but there's so many more things that play in as well

During stress; 
- Oxytocin may help to ensure that parents and others will engage with and care for infants 
- develop stable, loving relationships 
- and seek out and receive support from others in times of need 

Vasopressin is associated with physical and emotional mobilization, and can help support vigilance and behaviors needed for guarding a partner or territory, as well as other forms of adaptive self-defense. Vasopressin also may protect against physiologically “shutting down” in the face of danger. 

male care of offspring also appears to rely on both oxytocin and vasopressin, probably acting in part through effects on the autonomic nervous system

Love is a universal feeling of safety and connectedness with another. Research has shown that at the end of people’s lives, their primary regret is not spending more time with the people they love.

Males seem to be especially vulnerable to the negative effects of early experiences, possibly helping to explain the increased sensitivity of males to various developmental disorders. The implications of sex differences in the nervous system and in the response to stressful experiences for social behavior are only slowly becoming apparent 

---

### Neurons

Imagine trying to string words together into a meaningful sentence without knowing the meaning of each word or its function (i.e., Is it a verb, a noun, or an adjective?). In a similar fashion, to appreciate how groups of cells work together in a meaningful way in the brain as a whole, we must first understand how individual cells in the brain function. 

Not all neurons are created equal! 
1. sensory neurons: help us receive information about the world around us, sensory neurons. 
2. motor neurons: allow us to initiate movement and behavior, ultimately allowing us to interact with the world around us. 
3. interneurons: which process the sensory input from our environment into meaningful representations, plan the appropriate behavioral response, and connect to the motor neurons to execute these behavioral plans. 

There's three categories of neurons with each having a different structure.
1. Unipolar neurons are structured in such a way that is ideal for relaying information forward, so they have one neurite (axon) and no dendrites. They are involved in transmission of physiological information from the body’s periphery such as communicating body temperature through the spinal cord up to the brain. 
2. Bipolar neurons are involved in sensory perception such as perception of light in the retina of the eye. They have one axon and one dendrite which help acquire and pass sensory information to various centers in the brain. 
3. Finally, multipolar neurons are the most common and they communicate sensory and motor information in the brain. 



