## Talk abroad

1. be there on time and get ready for delays

2. Tell him/her/them your name, your nationality, where you live, your major and the classes you are taking. Describe your personality, things that you like to do and your plans for the summer. 

Hola, yo soy Kailey Stark. 

Yo soy de texas. 

Yo me gusta fotografía y videografía, los videojuegos y  

Soy un estudiante de cine, radio y televisión. 

Generalmente soy introvertido con personas que no conozco muy bien. 

Tengo dos hermanas menores y una hermana mayor que vive en Florida.
i have two younger sisters and one older sister who lives in Florida

lo siento, hace mucho frío en mi habitación
sorry, its really cold in my room 

perdón por ese segundo
sorry about that one second

3. Have available your questions and the fillers and expressions to develop fluency in conversation. You can use these to express interest and understanding in what your speaking partner is saying. 

4. If you don’t understand a word or question, don’t be afraid to ask your speaking partner to clarify as many times as necessary. 

5. Keep in mind that you won’t understand everything your speaking partner says. It’s ok! They will help you to keep the conversation going. 

6. Making mistakes is part of the learning process. If you make a mistake, don’t get frustrated and stop talking; keep going! 

7. Take notes (in English or Spanish) with keywords about important aspects you want to remember. Your notes will help you to reflect on the activity after the conversation. 

### conozco a la ella
- ella juega los videojuegos de la nes y la snes

common verbs
ser = to be 
estar = to be 
hacer = to be, make, exist
tener = to have 
aprender = to learn 

asking for opinions
¿qué cree = what do you think
¿qué opina 
¿qué piensa sobre ... = what do you think of/about ... 

expressing opinions 
creo que ... = i think/believe that ...
En mi opinión... = in my opinion ...
por un lado .... por otro ... = on one hand ... on the other 

agreeing 
estoy de acuerdo = i agree 
estoy completamente de acuerdo = I agree wholeheartedly 
cómo no! = of course not! 

disagree 
creo que no = i dont think so 
me parece que no = i dont believe so 
Honestamente, no estoy de acuerdo = honestly, i dont agree 
claro que no! = of course not!



no puedo recordar
