# 2021-10-20-SPN-N-L
## C3G2 - Conjunciones de tiempo - Conjunctions of time
<!-- 
### agenda
- check in 
- mini lecture
- kahoot
- group work
  - 2 things in google doc?
- tarea y preguntas
-->

- Hasta que
  - until
- En cuanto
  - as for
- Antes de que (siempre va con subjuntivo!)
  - before that (always makes subjunctive)
- Después de que
  - after what
- Cuando
  - when
- Tan pronto como
  - as soon as 

- Con estas conjunciones, solo se usa el subjuntivo cuando la acción está pendiente o está en el futuro.
  - With these conjunctions, the subjunctive is only used when the action is pending or in the future.

- Lucía no viajó a otros países hasta que se acabó el lockdown.
  - Lucía didn’t travel to other countries until the lockdown was over
  - When did this happen? in the past
  - What happened first? lockdown was over - se acabó el lockdown
  - What tense are the verbs in? preterite (past)

- Roberto no viaja hasta que recibe una prueba negativa.
  - Robert doesn't travel until he gets a negative test
  - When did this happen? now, habitual
  - What happened first? receives a negative test - recibe una prueba negativa
  - What tense are the verbs in? present indicative

- No viajaré hasta que se acabe la pandemia.
  - I won't travel until the pandemic ends
  - When did this happen? the future, pending
  - What happened first? the pandemic ends
  - What tense are the verbs in? viajaré: synthetic future, se acabe: subjunctive

### Entonces...¿cuándo usamos el infinitivo? - So ... when do we use the infinitive? 

- Me voy a bañar después de jugar béisbol. (one subject)
  - I'm going to shower after I play baseball.

- Me voy a bañar después de que juguemos el partido de béisbol. (two subjects)
  - I'm going to shower after we play the baseball game.

- Antes de que te vayas(antes de que makes it subjunctive), llévate (imperative) un trozo de pastel.
  - before you leave, take a piece of cake

- Me voy a llevar un trozo de pastel antes de irme.
  - I will take a piece of cake before I leave

### questions for the professor
- what is HEAD CT
  - all of the words for the thing

<!--y can be e and o can be u depending on the sound of the next word-->
- whats the name of the topic we covered today
  - Conjunctions of time

### assignments
- hablar #3b (c3v3) friday