# 2022-03-01-ANT-LAB

1. Complete the Lab 5 reading (In the Lab 5 folder on Canvas).
2. Watch the recorded lecture (35 minutes) that is attached to this message.
3. Download the Lab 5 exercise pdf file (In the Lab 5 folder on Canvas) which has all of the instructions for the assignment you need to complete. You were not able to measure the specimens (Question 1) or play the game in Part 2, so we are giving you some answers to the exercise (see below).
4. Submit your answers by completing the Lab 5 Quiz on Canvas--the submission deadline is extended to Monday, Feb. 28 at 11:59pm. Note that the sooner you submit your exercise, the sooner I will grade it so that you have that feedback while studying for next week's lab practical exam.

Question 1: The answers to the incisal row length (Column 1 of the table) are: 11.80mm (Alouatta) and 10.87mm (Cebus). The answers to postcanine row length (Column 2 of the table) are: 38.90mm (Alouatta) and 26.60mm (Cebus).
Use these numbers to calculate the I/P Index (Column 3 of the table) using the formula I/P *100.

Question 6: The answers are: Red-Tailed Monkeys (fruits), Black and White Colobus (leaves), Red Colobus (leaves), Mangabeys (fruits).

Question 7a. The answer is: the Red Colobus monkeys won the game and they targeted leaves as a food resource.

7b. Answer the question in the exercise, which is essentially asking you to explain some of the advantages of having a folivorous dietary strategy. Note that we give you a hint to talk about how leaves are distributed, their abundance, and how these factors affect how folivorous primates get their food. 







