# 2020 10 26 RTFTE2

<P><b>Describe three strategies the film industry used to drum up business  when moviegoing declined in the post-war era. Please dedicate one paragraph to each strategy. <BR><BR>For the purposes of this question, consider production, distribution, and exhibition as aspects of the film industry. You might discuss  changes in the kinds of films produced, how they were marketed, or how  they were exhibited. </B></p>

<p>When it comes to post World War 2 filmmaking, TV was starting to take off and take the business of the film industry. <br><br>
    <!--production-->
I'm going to start out with how the films themselves changed. At the time, TVs were small, black and white, and limited in what they could exhibit. Film, on the other hand, had color, a huge screen, and very large budgets. For a while, films moved more back towards showing spectacle, something that couldn't be done as well on TV. Films became very colorful, very loud, bombastic affairs that focused on the spectacle of it all. <br><br>
When it came to the exhibition side of things, the number of drive-in theatres exploded at this time. This is because of suburbanization leading to larger, more expensive theatres not being as profitable in spread out suburbs. The way lower price of entering the drive-in movie business at the time due to cheaper land in the suburbs also helped add to the number of drive-ins.<br><br>
Drive-ins also had the increased benefit of being more compartmentalized than a normal theatre. This was appealing to more of the suburban nuclear family crowd, because they didn't have to worry about being loud or having babies or anything like that, and the added privacy allowed for a more personal experience. <br><br>
    While drive-ins definitely had privacy for individuals during the film itself, a lot of the things at drive-ins were community events. They often offered games and playgrounds, meals and concessions, and some of them offered accommodations for new mothers, like a table to heat up milk on. Other accommodations could include things like washing machines as well. Drive-ins during this era were trying their hardest to hold on to their audience and create a community place during a time of more atomization of society, which given the proliferation of drive-ins at the time, seems to have been a really good business strategy.</p>




​    


