<p><b>In the space below, please reflect on how your time in Moody can help you to develop three of the strengths or skills that you’ve described in the job posting. You can choose a combination (two skills and a strength, two strengths and a skill, etc.) or comment just on strengths or just on skills. Please write in complete sentences. This reflection should be approximately 250-350 words long.</b></p>

<!--You can choose a combination (two skills and a strength, two strengths and a skill, etc.) or comment just on strengths or just on skills.-->

<p>
Through my time at moody, I hope to learn better how to not only operate cameras, but also how to learn to use cameras and not mess up and miss things while fiddling with settings. This is my Reliability strength from my job posting. I've worked a lot on this in my personal work, and I'm a lot better at this now than I was a few years ago, but there's always room for improvement. My job proposal is based on the position of someone I interned between 10th and 11th grade. He had a system of organization for all of his equipment, was constantly observant of what was going on, always ready for something to happen that he could film while on set.
He didn't really like the camera he had to use, and he had to have focus peaking, exposure peaking, a histogram, and a level on the camera monitor on at all times. I feel as though my time in moody college so far has already helped me be able to be more in that zone, and that going forward my RTF classes will help me to get to the point where if I'm on set I can be in that zone and almost always be ready.
</p>

<p>
Along with reliability, being able to be independent and knowing what you need and making sure you get that footage is something my time at Moody should help to develop.
already I have started to be able to have more of an eye for the scenes and visuals I want to or need to portray in a work. As I continue to work on more videos this sense is starting to develop naturally, however knowing the logic behind what makes a good visual or what makes something feel a certain way is definitely something that's necessary and something I will gain through my time at Moody
</p>
