---
created: 2020-10-03T23:22:32-05:00
modified: 2020-10-04T14:51:46-05:00
---

# 2020 10 03 COME: Value of 1 on 1 Communication

- To complete this assignment, you will write a short (1-2 pages/250-500 words, double spaced, 12 pt font, 1” margins) paper. 
- This paper will consider one speaker (either keynote or spotlight) who spoke about either one-to-one or small group communication.
- Once you’ve picked a speaker, your job is to tell us how what you see what learned from that talk being able to bring value to your life.
-  For this assignment, we’re asking you to reflect on how learning about communication at each of these levels can bring value to your life, be it personal, academic, or professional.
  - two points from any of the three categories




















I've chosen to talk about is dean iverson. his advice has helped to drive how i approach school and my future planning. 

when i was going  back through my notes to decide how i was giong to approach this essay, the first lecture i had notes for was from Dean Iverson. Upon reading through the notes, i realised how much id taken the advice to heart over my college experience over the last few months.

//

- im going to focus on two points
  1. why are you here
  1. studying system
  

//

the affect of the advice that the dean gave us is something that I had in the back of my head without remembering exactly who had said it but i had a feeling it was from one of the lectures in this class. since this semester has started, I've been working through a lot of personal mental health issues, along with trying to figure out exactly who I want to be and how I want to approach school, and Iverson's lecture, looking back, has helped me glean some sense of direcrtion through all of this without my quite realising exactly hwere i'd gotten the advice. 

//
1. why you are here
//

over the course of this semester, ive been able to explore both who i am now and who i want to be. not only the aspects of Iverson's talk that were in reference to what i want to do after college and what am i good at; i already had a pretty good sense of those things, instead i more was trying to tackle the more ephemeral version of the question. i started to try to use my art to convey my feelings and to try to find who i am. it feels like this lecture was the catalyst to a line of questioning about where i am and where im going that eventually led me to taking a project for my performing feminism class, called my ancestor, myself, that took me down a very personal rabbithole that was a very enlightening experience. The project was supposed to be a video on my personal relation to my ancestors, however, due to my traumatic childhood, it ended up being more of a reflective video on how i percieve the world, and how my trauma puts a barrier between me and the world i can't cross in order to relate to my ancestors mroe deeply. dean iverson's words put me on the course to create one of my most personal and impactful art pieces. if it werent for him causing me to start wondering about why im here and what im diong, i wouldnt have finally found a way to communicate my feelings and past, how that affects my present way of experiencing reality, and given me more direction of where i would like to take things in my future.






//
2. studying system
//

on a lighter note, dean iverson's studying system was something i had never heard of before. I have really bad adhd and studying is really difficult for me, however, generally im really good at taking tests. when it comes to college though, i know i cant just rely on my strategies i used to get through high school. having a system that makes things mroe digestible is extremely helpful to me. being able to break things down into the smaller and more important ideas is something that really helps me to grasp things, and while i definitely dont do it to the same extent Iverson recommended, i have still lifted enough ideas that have been extremely helpful to me.













//
3. conclusion/ tie it all together
//





Dean Iverson's talk to us has helped me to take both my studying life and my ability to express myself immensely, even if it was only the catalyst to later understanding. i definitely plan on continuing questioning why i am where i am and where im going, along with questioning how to break down things to understand them better into the future.