# RTF Final Project
# Kailey Stark

### Non-Academic Sources

<br>

1. Lorenz, Taylor. “Hype House and the Los Angeles TikTok Mansion Gold Rush.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 3 Jan. 2020, www.nytimes.com/2020/01/03/style/hype-house-los-angeles-tik-tok.html.

A lot of “collab houses” have been forming to house young TikTok, YouTube, and twitch stars, especially in the los Angeles area. The one this article focuses on, entitled the Hype House, was formed in December of 2019. It had 19 members, with four living there full time. This was a huge success, with hashtags related to the collab house receiving 100 million views on TikTok. They also blew up soon after forming. The positives they cite for a collab house are that it’s good for teamwork, growth, emotional support, and from a management perspective can help younger influencers focus on creating content. The founder of the Hype House is Chase Hudson, 17. This article shows the ways brands are built around these houses to try to create celebrities, and by having them in one place they can curate the celebrity’s brand more.

<br>

2. “L.A. Mayor Garcetti Orders Power Shut off at TikTok Influencer House.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 20 Aug. 2020, www.latimes.com/california/story/2020-08-19/tiktok-house-bryce-hall-los-angeles-eric-garcetti.

Risky parties were happening at the Sway House during COVID-19. No one was taking precautions, and no one was tested beforehand I believe. They ended up having their utilities shut off after multiple warnings and police visits. This goes to show the lack of supervision and self-control these houses have, as they’re putting themselves in huge risk for short term gain, whether that’s socially or monetarily, as often people post videos at these parties to social media which is obviously how these people make money

<br>

3. Jennings, Rebecca. “A TikTok House Divided.” Vox, Vox, 1 Oct. 2020, www.vox.com/the-goods/21459677/tiktok-house-la-hype-sway-girls-in-the-valley.

This article focuses on the collapse of the Sway House due to poor management and manipulation. It doesn’t take much to become the manager of a TikTok star. These people will often sign up to the first manager they run into. Mismanagement is a huge issue in the social media business, as these people are generally teens to young adults without much business experience or guidance. As it turns out, these collab houses don’t really make all that much money on their own. Many people who start them are aiming for reality TV stardom or something similar to pay the bills. Often the real customer when it comes to these collab houses is the influencers themselves, which is very worrying considering their age a lot of the time.

<br>

4. Liao, Shannon. “Gaming World Faces One of Its Biggest #MeToo Moments Yet.” CNN, Cable News Network, 30 June 2020, www.cnn.com/2020/06/30/tech/fedmyster-removed-offlinetv/index.html.

Twitch streamer Fedmyster sexually assaulted/harassed fellow twitch streamers living at the OfflineTV house and used his status and his substance abuse issues as an excuse to the victims so they wouldn’t come out. Eventually, however, they did come out and break the story, and he did admit to everything that happened and fell away from streaming. This story didn’t end with this article, it kicked back up again recently due to some related drama, however it seems to have ended for good. This whole drama shows how the image of celebrities can be controlled using these houses and collaboration in general. It also shows how much abuse tactics can affect a victim’s way of viewing an event.

<br>

5. “TikTok Stars Charged with Misdemeanors Related to Hollywood Parties during Pandemic.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 28 Aug. 2020, www.latimes.com/california/story/2020-08-28/tiktok-stars-charged-with-misdemeanors-for-huge-hollywood-parties-during-coronavirus.

Through COVID-19, it has been hard to keep these young influencers away from big parties seemingly. This is extremely annoying to everyone else who has been fighting COVID-19 19 and avoiding social gatherings. A misdemeanor charge seems low for the severity of the situation; however, the difficulty of policing COVID-19 guidelines has been a huge task. I can’t really think of things other than these huge scale influencer parties that has led to people getting charged for COVID-19 related things.


<br>


### Academic Sources

<br>

 6. [A study on the dynamics between the moral reasoning process and celebrity image and their impact on consumers’ support for celebrity comebacks after a transgression](https://www-emerald-com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/insight/content/doi/10.1108/JPBM-02-2019-2259/full/html)

Einwiller, Sabine (2020). A study on the dynamics between the moral reasoning process and celebrity image and their impact on consumers’ support for celebrity comebacks after a transgression. , 29, 729-743.

This study was to show how consumers justify their favorite celebrities; specifically, how they support a celebrity after a comeback from a transgression. They did two studies, one that was to see the consumers' preference for celebrities and their support after a transgression. The second study was to see the effect of certain lines of moral reasoning, and how that affected their support of the celebrity. They forgave a celebrity framed as a moral person if they were trying to rationalize what happened, but if they tried to decouple the morals from the consumer, the bad boy image was more supported. This could play into how you want to play your cards if you as a celebrity had a huge scandal, like the ones mentioned above.


<br>


 7. [A picture is worth a thousand words: The effect of viewing celebrity Instagram images with disclaimer and body positive captions on women’s body image](https://www-sciencedirect-com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/science/article/pii/S1740144520300279)

Tiggemann, Marika (2020). A picture is worth a thousand words: The effect of viewing celebrity Instagram images with disclaimer and body positive captions on women’s body image. Body Image, 33, 190-198.

This study was one where they subjected people to looking at both celebrity images and travel images on Instagram and tracked how that made the participants feel about their body image. They tried to see how the captions would affect body image, but they did not end up showing any results at all. The disclaimers or body positive remarks on the description didn’t change anything. They found looking at travel photos had way less of an effect on body image perception, while celebrity images hurt their self-image.

<br>

 8. [A New Scale to Capture the Multidimensionality of Celebrity Image](https://journals-sagepub-com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/doi/full/10.1177/0972150920919599)

Ghuman, Mandeep Kaur (2020). A New Scale to Capture the Multidimensionality of Celebrity Image. , , 97215092091959-.

This study aimed to categorize celebrities in a way to make it easier for advertisers to select a fitting celebrity for their product placement. They used a huge number of dimensions for celebrity image. They had a total of seven dimensions to judge celebrities by. This is one of the many ways advertisers match or create celebrities to fill a certain niche, and to know a celebrity fits a target audience perfectly.

<br>

 9. [The Power of Political Image: Justin Trudeau, Instagram, and Celebrity Politics](https://journals-sagepub-com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/doi/full/10.1177/0002764217744838)

Raynauld, Vincent (2017). The Power of Political Image: Justin Trudeau, Instagram, and Celebrity Politics. , 63, 888-924.

This source explored Canadian celebrity image management, and how it affects leadership in the realm of celebrity politics. They refer to previous studies on how a celebrity is presented in specific images can affect how much they want them to be a leader. They try to go in more specifically on a specific political movement, that of Trudeau in Canada. This was a retrospective study. They focused on how Trudeau's Instagram was a huge form of constituent outreach during his campaign by looking at engagement and posting trends. This shows how celebrity image pruning has even wormed its way into politics.
