# 2020 10 26 RTFTE1
<p><b>You recently read FCC chair Newton Minow’s 1961 speech “Television  and the Public Interest.” This question asks you to reflect on Minow's  argument in that speech.<br><br>In one paragraph, please describe Minow’s understanding of “the  public interest” and discuss at least one way outlined in his speech  that he thinks television should change to serve the public.<br><br>In a second paragraph, please describe the commercial imperative of  the television industry and discuss at least one reason why television  would not be inclined to change their practices.</b></p>

<p>Minow believed the public interest was to have TV be more than just mindless entertainment, and instead to also act as an educator and something to help you become a better person and citizen. He believed a change in the programs available and number of channels would help people to choose programs that weren't just junk food essentially. </p>

<!--In a second paragraph, please describe the commercial imperative of  the television industry and discuss at least one reason why television  would not be inclined to change their practices.-->

<p>The TV industry had a huge vested interest in the ratings of the shows that were shown, the more ratings, or concurrent viewers, a show gets, the more it costs to run an advertisement on that show. It turns out that "lowest common denominator" programming pulls in ratings really really well, and they can be shown pretty much forever. This makes these shows easier to produce, with a huge return on investment for the studio. This is why the TV industry wouldn't be inclined to change.</p>