- Very early motion pictures in 1890s (in the United States or abroad)
- The nickelodeon era from 1905-1915
- Going to a movie palace in 1925
- Going to a movie anywhere in 1930 or 1931 (during the Great Depression)
- Going to a movie anywhere in 1934

From the point of view of an audience member, you might describe what the theater is like, what happens during the presentation, how much it  cost, what kinds of movies were on the screen, and so forth.



Very early motion pictures in 1890s (in the United States)

i walk up to the kinetescope parlour and give them my nickel, and go through the line with everyone else, watching each film through two viewing holes into a box. i watch each of the short motion pictures, from a few seconds to a minute in length, going down the line one by one until ive watched all of the shorts, takign around five minutes until im done with all of them.

The nickelodeon era from 1905-1915

I walk into the small theatre with a couple of my friends, after handing the person at the front my nickel. We watch all of the films on the short loop that they have, takign around fifteen minutes to watch everytjhing new. there are physical comedies shown, along with a newsreel. my friends and i talk at a comfortable tone throughout the films

Going to a movie palace in 1925

i walk in with my romantic partner after we pay for our tickets, theres a full band playing as we walk through the door. before the film, we watch the live on stage performances of vaudeville and some short cartoons and newsreels. the film itself is within our gates, accompanied by the band. i talk with my partner throuhgout the film and the rest of the audience chatters as well.