# 2020 10 19 RTFR

## industry history hunt

### instructions

1. ~~Select a historical magazine from mediahistoryproject.org. Just make sure it is 1) a magazine, not a book and 2) that it was published before 1968.~~
2. Read your magazine cover to cover. Digitally flip through all of the pages. Look at both the articles and the advertisements. 
3. ~~Find something you're curious about or never heard of. Then, use Wikipedia. Use Wikipedia to do a little more reading about at least one film, topic, person, product, etc.~~
4. Write a 2-3 page reflection essay that answers these three questions: Your magazine is a snapshot of Hollywood's image at a particular point in time. 
   1. What stories is Hollywood telling about itself in your magazine? 
   2. What did you follow up on using Wikipedia? 
   3. What perspective did you get from Wikipedia that you didn't get from the magazine, and vice versa? 
   4. ~~What's something that you were surprised to learn?~~
5. Submit via canvas your reflection (with a citation and link to your magazine) in a Word document.

### Magazine Titles

- Boxoffice 
- Broadcasting 
- Business Screen 
- The Film Daily 
- Filmland 
- Hollywood 
- The Hollywood Reporter 
- Modern Screen 
- Motion Picture 
- Motion Picture Daily 
- Motion Picture Herald 
- Moving Picture World 
- Picture-Play Magazine 
- Photoplay 
- Radio Age 
- Radio Digest 
- Radio and Television Today 
- Screenland 
- Sponsor 
- Variety



## <!--my magazine i chose-->

### <!--variety 138 no 8-->



#### <!--interesting-->

> <!--First scientiflcally-devised for-< nuila for determining the effect of TV on film boxoflfice receipts dis- closes that for each 2% saturation of tele sets in an area, theatre grosses go down 1%. Consulting economist who ar- rived at the formula in research for Columbia Pictures also states in his report to the company that: 1. Films will lose 40% to 50% of their 1948 audiences to TV when tele saturation approaches that of radio in all areas, “unless Other factors intervene.'^ „ 2 Theatre boxoffice takV in the t S. for 1951 will be $1,441,000,- 000. a decline of 9.4% from the 1948 figure of $1,590,000,000. 3 Business in non-TV areas will he better in 1951 than in 1948 (by 5 4 r r ), while it will be off by 18.1% in TV territories. Non-TV areas will produce a total of $621,000,000 for the year and TV areas $820 000,000. Economist who did the research (Continued on page 15)-->

#### <!--interesting 2-->

> <!--Flock of pix going into release during the next few months indi- cates that Hollywood is returning ---on a limited scale, at least--to the muiti-millioq dollaK epic. Al- though production austerity is con- tinuing in regard to m6st product, fall list hints a considerable loosen- ing of the reins. ^ The “colossals" include Wsmer Bros.' “Captain Horatio Hornblower," Metro's “Quo Vadis" and 20th’s “David and Bathsheba" on the immediate slate. Due next spring is Paramount's Cecil B. De- Milie special, “Greatest Show On Earth." Just below the “colossal" divi- sion are Walt Disney's “Alice in Wonderland" and Howard Hughes’ "Jet Pilot," both of which were produced on "super-budgets." Metro has another biggie, “Ivan- hoe," going into production in England, with a cast headed by Robert Taylor, Elizabeth Taylor, Joan Fontaine and George Sanders. Boxoffice returns over a recent period -- despite television and other conditions adverse to pix -- have demonstrated there still can be a payoff sufficient to warrant heavy coin outlays. This line of thinking would have been re- garded as economic suicide in 1948 ( Continued on -->



#### <!--my thoughts on how both of these relate to one another-->

this is a really interesting snapshot into that era where television started becoming prominent. the main head line shows that multi million dollar movies will be being made again, with the article itself mentioning alice in wonderland as one of these very expensive films to be released. the article on the left side of the front page shows how with each 2% rise in tv ownership, 1% of the profits of movies goes away. having had a lecture about this in class, i think it's extremely interesting to see both of these events happen in the same issue of the magazine. 

its reallly interesting, although somewhat annoying, that eeven into the late forties this magazine was still formatted more like a newspaper than a magazine that we would imagine today. with articles in block text that kind of all runs together for me, it really makes it kind of a pain to read. luckily, i can zoom in on each block of text, but if i had a physical version this formatting would be obnoxious.

<!--drive in experience-->

another thing talked about in lectures that showed up in this magazine is the proliferation of drive in movie theatres. i think it's crazy that all of these things talked about in one of the last lectures i saw are not only present, but seemingly very obvous to the journalists of the time. often times it feels trends in history are only really seen in hindsight, but this right here is a really interesting example of everyone seeing at least the immediate future it seems. they also call drive in theatres "ozoners," which is way too ominous of a name given that we now know the extent of atmospheric damage and climate change. its crazy to see the list of new drive in movie theatres popping up all down the side of the page. this trend is crazy in how quickly it has spread just how many there were in a short amount of time. i personally actually have experience with a drive in movie theatre, both as a kid and as a teen. there's one in brenham i believe is still open and i remember going to at 16, but the only one i've found there now closed in the 1980s. i also dont really talk to all of the friends i went with back then, so it feels like it just vanished, which is one of both the weirdest, unsettleing, and frustrating experiences ive had for a while. looking at the list given in this edition of variety, i dont see the starlihgt theatre from brenham listed, which is the one that closed in the 80s, so i guess it either didnt exist back then or they didnt cover it because it was in the middle of nowhere. 

i just went through to try to find the origination of the term ozoners, but that didnt come up with any results on wikipedia. i was, however, able to find a wikipedia page on drive in movie theatres, but it was pretty sparse. there was a reference at the bottom of the page to try to find drive in theatres near you, but that led to a link to the wayback machine. this saved copy of the website that looks to be from march of 2016 says it has over 5,000 drive in theatres listed, but i'm only able to find about ten, and the search by zip code function doesnt work. looking to the sidebar, there is a section listed ozoner central. this has a page with general advice on how to be polite while at a drive in movie, along with tips and things you may want or need to bring, such as a radio and lawnchairs. i think it's really interesting how something used to try to save theatres in the late forties ended up staying around in some respects until today. granted, light polution and rising land costs in cities make it a non optimal solution for the cities nowadays, but out in the middle of nowhere and especially during a pandemic, drive in movies are a great and more private way to enjoy a movie with friends or family. 

i also just started a search for that drive in i went to as a kid and then again as a teen a few times. it seems to be showboat theatre right in between waller and tomball in the northwest greater houston area. i am definitely considering heading back over there next time im back in my home town, this class has made me appreciate drive ins a bit more, and id love to go now just in case it shuts down in the future. however, with the current state of the US as it is, im sure theyll be able to stay open a while at the least.

<!--pix-->

another interesting piece of grammar or slang that we dont use anymore today is the shortening of motion pictures to "pix." im not quite sure why they did this, unless if pictures was one of the few terms used at the time and they needed to save space. i went thorouhg to try to find why this was used as an abbreviation, and at least on wikipedia it said it was specific to the ***variety*** magazine, to shorten motion pictures. when i tried going to the motion picture page linked at the end of that, there wasn't any mention of pix in that article, and when i went to the ***variety*** page, it was a similar story. the fact that that small amount of information was there makes me even more curious, but i cant find any references or anything like that related to the shortening of "pix" within any of the articles or pages i saw at the least.

<!--free speech-->

when it comes to the more general things going on in hollywood, at the time of this article filmmakers were fighting in court in order to make first ammendment rights apply to films as well. to me the idea that this was in any way something that had to be one is crazy to me, considering personally it's so obvious. apparently, that's something i took for granted, and that people did have to fight to keep their art from censorship. with further reading im even more interested. it seems the ACLU had to fight against the governemtn in multiple states with multiple suits, fighting bans of films with both racist and anti racist messages. to me its crazy to consider that they lost at least one of these legal battles against a ban of a film in a state. this just shows how much our freedom of speech in this country had to be fought for, and that it wasnt completely just industry self-regulation. many states tried and succeeded in banning films for many reasons, and im just glad for the most part, especially with the rise of the internet, that we can make films over pretty much anyhting we want now without the government ahving muvh of a say. 

<!--closing-->

i was way more intrigued by the things in this magazine than i thouhgt i woudl be to be honest. it was an incredibly interesting look back, both at how much insight people had over the film industry back then, and the lengths we've had to go to tosay what we want with our art in this country.

