- 2 generic elements
  - characters
  - iconography
- 2 media forms
  - the film *The Untouchables*
  - the first episode of the tv show *Narcos*
- 2 academic sources?

### thesis

#### broken down
- characters
  - For the most part, the gangster genre focuses on the criminals making or selling the drugs. However, in the tv show *Narcos* this is filtered through the narcotics officer hunting down Pablo Escobar, and in the film *The Untouchables* they put this completely on its head, focusing on the cops tracking down on Al Capone and barely covering Al Capone's escapades.

- Iconography
  - The gangster genre generally focuses on the distribution of the drugs, with large urban sprawls and drug dealers. *The Untouchables* does follow this for the most part, with a lot of scenes taking place in the city. In contrast, *Narcos* for the most part focuses on the production of cocaine, and how Pablo Escobar got into that.

- What going to do
  - In this paper, I'm going to be going over how the TV show *Narcos* and the film *The Untouchables* compare to gangster genre more broadly when it comes to their character and iconography.

#### all together
In this paper, I'm going to be going over how the TV show *Narcos* and the film *The Untouchables* compared to the gangster genre more broadly when it comes to their character and iconography. For the most part, the gangster genre focuses on criminals making or selling drugs. However, in the tv show *Narcos* this is filtered through the narcotics officer hunting down Pablo Escobar, and in the film *The Untouchables* They put this idea completely on its head, focusing on the cops tracking down Al Capone and barely covering Al Capone's escapades. The gangster genre generally focuses on the distribution of drugs, with large urban sprawls and drug dealers. *The Untouchables* does follow this for the most part, with a lot of scenes taking place in the city. In contrast, *Narcos* for the most part focuses on the production of cocaine, and how Pablo Escobar got into that.

#### TA Note
I suggest creating a sentence that succinctly identifies what you want to
do in the paper. In that sentence, I suggest identifying the two generic
elements you will be comparing or contrasting (or doing both) across the
media forms and arguing both what is happening and why it is important.
This sentence might serve to clarify what you are saying in the sentences
you sent me.

### body 1
The characters of *The Untouchables* aren't the normal bunch for a gangster film. For the most part gangster films focus on the criminals that are creating and selling the drugs. However, *The Untouchables* focuses on the people actually trying to put away Al Capone, and all the things they go through.

While the focus on the police is different than most other gangster films, Al Capone as a gangster isn't really all that different from other gangsters throughout the film. [this is from Schatz] Even though his reign over the city of Chicago was extreme and violent, eventually societal forces outside his control caused his downfall. It isn't the police that chase him down that cause his reign to come to an end, but instead the courts that cause his downfall.

Along with this classical portrayal of a gangster, the team that sets out to catch Al Capone is full of people who will do whatever it takes to get what they want. While they are clearly portrayed as the heroes of the story, they are also shown having vices along with the virtue. Two of the Untouchables drink alcohol in the film, both of which end up dying for unrelated reasons.

The typical main character of a gangster film is supposed to be an anti-hero, a character who isn't supposed to be the typical virtuous hero who is morally better than everyone else, but instead a more relatable and down to earth person. This can be applied to both al capone and the mentor cop character<!-- find his name-->, if not other members of the Untouchables. 

























When it comes to *Narcos*, the first episode isn't enough to see the downfall of Pablo Escobar. However, the character that gets Escobar into the production and distribution of cocaine is <!-- check for what they call him--> la Cucaracha, and he has a full arc throughout the episode. It shows his rise in prominence through being one of the few producers of cocaine to survive Pinochet's execution of everyone who was producing drugs, and was able to ride the wave of demand for cocaine. This was until the man he helped grow to prominence, Pablo Escobar, didn't need him anymore.












### body 2

When it comes to the iconography of *Narcos*, it seems to take a bit of a different direction than most gangster films. While most classical gangster texts cover the distribution of drugs, *Narcos* covers the creation of the drugs. This is why this episode of the show primarily takes place in Chile, Peru, and Columbia.

This change of focus completely changes the characters and setting of the text, and subsequently significantly changes the look and feel of the show.

This focus is completely at odds with the setting and iconography of *The Untouchables*. The main focus of the film is on catching and prosecuting Al Capone, a huge smuggler and distributer of alcohol during prohibition. However, he is never the one who is making the alcohol. This brings it more in line with most gangster films, but puts it at odds with the episode of *Narcos*

This focus on the distribution of alcohol during prohibition, the time period where classical gangster films were at their height, allows for a lot of the classical images one thinks of when thinking about classical hollywood era gangster media. There's the dark and grungy urban setting, with plenty of bloody violence and high stakes action.

























## Thomas Schatz "The Gangster Film"
- the classical Hollywood gangster film was the shortest lived of the classical genres

### The gangster-hero and the urban milieu
- Unlike the Westerner and the hardboiled detective, who were adapted to the screen from popular literary genres,
- the screen gangster was lifted directly from the current newspaper headlines.
- weren't the most realistic
- As Hollywood's characterization of the criminal was taken out of the controlled studio environment and away from performers like Cagney, Robinson, and Bogart, the genre underwent a radical revision of its own mythology
- the mythology of the classical gangster film is like in western, in that it takes place on the cusp of the transition to modern society

- late 1920s along moved to sound with the depression making things worse completely changed up the gangster film
- warner brothers dominated gangster film genre for years
- sound increased the impact of the violence in the gangster genre
- developed fast paced narrative and editing
- most effective in the early 30s
  - pre production code


#### character of the gangster
- alter ego of the ambitious American man
  - denied legitimate routes to success, resorts to crime to get what he wants
  - somehow the city bigger than both the criminal and the police
  - fight between the inner good and the want for personal success
    - between the common and personal good
    - tries to realign to make these things come together
  - it isn't the police that stop the gangster, but society moving forward
    - like the cowboy
    - makes the gangster constantly anxious about the uncertain future
- urban milieu serves two purposes
  - dark and surreal arena of violence
  - society progressing until eventually the gangster is left behind

### gangster prototypes: *little Caesar and the public enemy*

## compiled paper
In this paper, I'm going to be going over how the TV show *Narcos* and the film *The Untouchables* compared to the gangster genre more broadly when it comes to their character and iconography. For the most part, the gangster genre focuses on criminals making or selling drugs. However, in the tv show *Narcos* this is filtered through the narcotics officer hunting down Pablo Escobar, and in the film *The Untouchables* They put this idea completely on its head, focusing on the cops tracking down Al Capone and barely covering Al Capone's escapades. The gangster genre generally focuses on the distribution of drugs, with large urban sprawls and drug dealers. *The Untouchables* does follow this for the most part, with a lot of scenes taking place in the city. In contrast, *Narcos* for the most part focuses on the production of cocaine, and how Pablo Escobar got into that.









.
