# 2021-10-22-RTF-N-L
## Genre Paper
### logistics
#### Option #1: Horror
- Choose 2 of the following:
  - Film: Poltergeist (1982)
  - TV: The Haunting of Hill House (S1, E1, “Steven Sees A Ghost,” 2019)
  - Video game: What Remains of Edith Finch (2017)
- Required source:
  - Stephen Prince, “Introduction: The Dark Genre and Its Paradoxes,” in The Horror Film, ed. Stephen Prince (New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press, 2004): 1-11.
#### Option #2: Science fiction
- Choose 2 of the following:
  - Film: Arrival (2016)
  - TV: The Expanse (S1, E1, “Dulcinea,” 2015)
  - Video game: Mass Effect 2 (2010)
- Required source:
  - Sherryl Vint, “Introduction: Whose Science Fiction?” in Science Fiction (Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press, 2021): 1-18. 
#### Option #3: Gangster
- Choose 2 of the following:
  - Film: The Untouchables (1987)
  - TV: Narcos (S1, E1, “Descenso,” 2015)
  - Video game: Grand Theft Auto IV (2008)
- Required source:
  - Thomas Schatz, “The Gangster Film,” in Hollywood Genres: Formulas, Filmmaking, and the Studio System (New York, NY: Random House, 1981): 45-80.
#### In your analysis...
- Identify recurring elements or conventions of your genre
  - Character archetypes, narratives, settings, props, camerawork, sound, ideology
- Examine how these elements are demonstrated/transformed in your texts
  - Select 2 elements
  - Apply to an individual scene or sequence (film), episode (TV), or story mission (game)
    - *if you choose character archetypes, focus on specific actions or behaviors
#### Your essay should answer the following:
- Are your texts actively manipulating your chosen conventions, working against them, or embracing them?
- How does medium specificity affect how the story is told, as well as how your specific conventions are deployed or not? 
- how is the adherence to, or deviation from, traditional generic conventions creating meaning within your texts?
#### Formatting & research requirements:
- 1000-1200 words (not including works cited or title page)
- Double-spaced, 12-pt. Times New Roman font
- 1” margins
- A title that identifies your chosen genre and hints at your argument
- In-text citations and works cited page (MLA or Chicago style)
  - Include citations when quoting or summarizing sources
- In addition to the required text above, you are expected to cite 2 additional peer-reviewed journal articles or book chapters
  - 3 academic sources total
#### Making an argument:
- Your paper should be organized around an argument-driven thesis
- Thesis should be provable, specific, and go deeper than  identifying conventions
- Ask yourself:
  - What am I trying to argue?
  - What specific elements in my texts best support my argument?
- Avoid plot summaries; dive right into your analysis after your intro paragraph
