1. To what extent do Children of Men and Sound of Metal follow the rules of classical Hollywood storytelling? In your answer, consider protagonists, character development, conflicts, and closure. Use specific examples from the films to make your points.

Children of men 

Ensemble of protagonists, but 2 consistent ones. 
The main guy protagonist goes from being politically disengaged and uncaring to dying to help the world move along. 
Throughout the film, there are many conflicts that the main characters are very active participants in resolving.
Left open ended for the new mother, but the main guy dies. A lot of people have stories with loose ends, but they all end up dying without completely resolving them. 

Children of men starts with the main guy protagonist we follow throughout the film, but there are a lot of supporting characters that are introduced and then killed off. He starts out politically disaffected and disinterested, but becomes more goal oriented over time. Everyone else in the world is trying to stop the main character and the pregnant woman from their goals up until she gives birth, and even then people try to use the baby for their own goals. Unlike the traditional Classical Hollywood Narrative, the narration is restricted, and we don't know what happens to characters that leave the main two characters. What's also different is that the ending is left open, as the main character dies as the ship finds their small boat.



Sound of metal

Arguably between 1-3 protagonists
Tries to regain his hearing, and become a deaf person who can function in society
At first, it’s difficult for him to communicate with other people. Then his obstacle is his issues around being able to deal with his emotions in a healthier way. Then his main goal is to get the money for the surgery. Then he realizes his surgery doesn’t fix everything, and that he will have to live with being deaf. In all these conflicts, the main character is an active agent in resolving them. 
Over time the main guy learns to live with being deaf, and to be more of a patient and reserved person. 
The ending is left kind of open ended; we don’t know where his life will lead next.

In the sound of metal, there is the one main protagonist and his girlfriend. His initial goal is to get his hearing back, but it shifts to being a deaf person who can function in society. At first, the issue is that he has difficulty communicating and is too headstrong and impatient; often the obstacles he's trying to overcome are exacerbated by his personality traits, and the guy at the home for the deaf helps him to come over some of this. This film does have restricted narration, unlike the Classical Hollywood Narrative; we don't know what is going on with the main character's girlfriend while he's at the home for the deaf. The ending also doesn’t really have full closure; we don't know where there band goes or what happens with the mobile home, but we do know that to some extent he comes to terms with being deaf. 


Children of men starts with the main guy protagonist we follow throughout the film, but there are a lot of supporting characters that are introduced and then killed off. He starts out politically disaffected and disinterested, but becomes more goal oriented over time. Everyone else in the world is trying to stop the main character and the pregnant woman from their goals up until she gives birth, and even then people try to use the baby for their own goals. Unlike the traditional Classical Hollywood Narrative, the narration is restricted, and we don't know what happens to characters that leave the main two characters. What's also different is that the ending is left open, as the main character dies as the ship finds their small boat.

In the sound of metal, there is the one main protagonist and his girlfriend. His initial goal is to get his hearing back, but it shifts to being a deaf person who can function in society. At first, the issue is that he has difficulty communicating and is too headstrong and impatient; often the obstacles he's trying to overcome are exacerbated by his personality traits, and the guy at the home for the deaf helps him to come over some of this. This film does have restricted narration, unlike the Classical Hollywood Narrative; we don't know what is going on with the main character's girlfriend while he's at the home for the deaf. The ending also doesn’t really have full closure; we don't know where there band goes or what happens with the mobile home, but we do know that to some extent he comes to terms with being deaf. 