- Explain three key differences between episodic and serialized television narratives using specific examples from LOST and House to support your points. How has the cultural status of seriality changed? How does the episode of House that we screened in class blend episodic and serialized elements? How does it use self-reflexive storytelling techniques in a “complex” way? Please refer to specific examples from the episode.


---

### Three key differences 

1. When it comes to episodic shows, for the most part each episode is self-contained. At the end of each episode there is a return to stasis.

At the end of the episode of house that we watched, house returns to his job as a doctor and everything goes back to normal. In contrast, serialized shows normally have long plots across multiple episodes. If the conflicts do end up being resolved, it might take many episodes or seasons for it to be truly resolved. For example, at the end of the episode of LOST that we watched, we didn't know what the monster was or what it wanted. 


2. Generally, there are a lot more characters in serialized tv shows as opposed to episodic shows, where there's normally between one and six main characters. This is because you have a lot more time to build on each character over an overarching narrative, as opposed to the individual episode being a self-contained storyline. In the episode of LOST that we watched, Jack (the medical guy check his name) said that there was 45 people alive from the plane crash to the pilot. This is in contrast to the episode of House, where the main characters are House, his supervisor, and a couple of other recurring doctors. 


3. In serialized shows, often the characters change up the setting and props that they use during the show. For example, in LOST they started out in a forest, went out to the beach, and then went to the plane crash. However, when it comes to episodic shows often they take place in the same setting over and over to keep costs lower. The episode of House I don't think is a great example, but it still has places that we end up at over and over. There's the supervisor's office and the hospital rooms. However I don't think that we see that lecture hall again in the show. This also makes the amount of exposition needed lower and makes a full plot more doable in the time frame of an episode.

---

### How has the cultural status of seriality changed?

Originally, serialized formats were associated with daytime soap operas with long drawn out plots that take a long time to resolve. This led to the format being associated with women, and so therefore being seen as a less worthy form of media. In the last couple decades, however, we have seen the rise of more high brow artistic shows that have serialized stories.








### How does the episode of House that we screened in class blend episodic and serialized elements?

For the vast majority of the things that make something episodic, house falls under that category perfectly. However, when it comes to having self contained plots, House has character development over time. This is an issue when it comes to a return to stasis at the end of each episode, as the state of stasis is altered. 


### How does it use self-reflexive storytelling techniques in a “complex” way?

The episode of house we watched had some elements you needed to know a little bit about the show to have understood, and built upon our understanding of the characters within the show that recontextualizes them. Also, the aesthetic of the medical classroom and going through all of the logical reasoning behind all of the decisions of the doctors gets the audience to think through and come to their own conclusions. Drawing attention to the assumptions of the students as somewhat of a stand-in for the audience continues to draw the audience further into wanting to engage with the show. The alternative realities and dream sequences throughout the episode, along with the obscuring of knowledge throughout, make this an interesting episode to watch a second time.

<!--
1. The episode of house we watched had some elements you needed to know a little bit about the show to have understood, and built upon our understanding of the characters within the show that recontextualizes them.
2. Also, the aesthetic of the medical classroom and going through all of the logical reasoning behind all of the decisions of the doctors gets the audience to think through and come to their own conclusions.
3. Drawing attention to the assumptions of the students as somewhat of a stand-in for the audience continues to draw the audience further into wanting to engage with the show.
4. The alternative realities and dream sequences throughout the episode, along with the obscuring of knowledge throughout, make this an interesting episode to watch a second time.-->






notes on house
- conditional seriality
- self reflexive storytelling
- operational aesthetic
- dream sequences, fantasies, imagined alternate realities

original def
- complex tv is something tv does better than other mediums
- rewatch value
- new narrative strategies
  - mix of serialized and episodic
  - promotes more active viewing



