mundane trauma or something 

one of the girls walks in the door from work and kisses the other, obviously exhausted, and sits at the kitchen bar. the girlfriend walks up behind her and softly rubs her back. 

suddenly, it smash cuts to a flashback of the past. someone else is rubbing the persons back. the sudden cut is made with a loud, sharp, staticy sound. the girl seated at the bar says "please stop." the mom doesn't stop. there are many quick cuts to close ups of whats going on. specifically the rubbing and the face of the girl just below the eyes, tears streaming down her face. 

"please... stop" she asks again, this time it smoothly cuts back to the present day. the girlfriend pulls away, saying "is everthing alright?"

this is drowned out like the girl is going underwater. we cut back to the past, the mom continuing to rub the person's back, eventually popping the strap of the girls bra in the back, and rubbing some more. "what are you wearing?" the mom asks in an aggressive way, the way that you know her real question is why. 

"p-please stop" she asks again, this time it cuts back to present day in a smooth way, and we see the girlfriend trying to calm her down.

without warning it cuts back again, the mom storming off and yelling to the dad.

the final shot is of the girl and the girlfriend sitting on the couch, the girlfriend holding the girl close. the girl is staring right ahead, the shot is a head on objective shot of the couch. 

maybe the gf says something like "shh, itll be ok" or something 

cuts to black for credits 
